\begin{abstract}
%Gabor, Janos ... ?
%This is about resilient control of cyber physical systems.
Interconnection damping assignment passivity based control (IDA-PBC)
is an emerging control design method which allows an engineer to
systematically design an advanced controller for complex non-linear
systems.  As a result specific gain ranges can be determined which can
prevent an operator (adversary) from accidentally (maliciously) setting
control gains which could potentially destabilize the system.  However
in order to generate the controller the engineer will have to resort
to using symbolic numerical solvers in order to complete the design.
This can be both a cumbersome and error-prone task which can be
automated.  We present initial results of a tool which simplifies
IDA-PBC.  In addition many fluid control problems posses tight
operating regions in which pumps degrade over time.  As a result
actuator saturation may occur for given set-point profiles which will
lead to integrator wind-up and more oscillatory behavior.  We
provide a non-linear anti-windup control-law which greatly improves
system resilience to such degradation.  Finally we demonstrate that
IDA-PBC works reasonably well for moderately large sampling times by
simply applying the bilinear transform to approximate any additional
(non-linear) integral control terms.
\end{abstract}
\footnotetext{Contract/grant sponsor (number): NSF (NSF-CCF-0820088)\\
Contract/grant sponsor (number): Air Force (FA9550-06-1-0312).}